i mean i'm i'm hardly a streaming expert
to be very clear like i shouldn't be the
one advising you in fact uh eposvox
watched my streaming setup upgrade video
and basically tweeted at me he's like
we should talk you should yeah why
didn't you talk to him first i'm sure he
would have been down no no yeah i'm
going there welcome to stream critique
ltt edition so at the time of recording
linus tech tips has just posted a video
to their youtube channel that is a
modified version of something they
posted last week to floatplane which is
linus upgrading his streaming setup as
many of you have noticed there is a
stark difference between the quality of
the videos that i shoot in the studio
with my staff and the quality of the
videos that i shoot at home by myself
much of the ltt staff has been working
from home as have a lot of people and
thus the wan show and other content that
linus makes needs to be done from home
and his streaming setup was
nothing amazing so
he said forced to upgrade it and
i have access to some behind-the-scenes
knowledge to clarify a couple points in
that they were trying to mainly use
stuff they already have or weren't using
and weren't trying to go for the best
but for the most part the thinking
process was right but they ended up with
some weird results and i think it's
super important to take a look at what
they ended up with in order to really
learn from their experience and kind of
show you
what mistakes not to make this video is
not obviously intended to just crap on
linus or their streaming setup or
anything like that or what they chose or
did because that's not useful but rather
to show you you know
very common mistakes that i see everyone
make when when it comes to setting up
specific
parts of your streaming setup and how
that might be able to
keep
other people of you from making those
same mistakes because i hate seeing it
every time and i hated seeing some of it
here but they fixed some of it in the
youtube video i will say that many
people's first impulse when they want to
improve their video quality is to
upgrade their camera but as you can see
i'm getting a dramatically better feed
out of the same webcam that i started
this video out with just by changing my
lighting so that's where we're gonna
start
linus started out with the right choices
he's got a webcam and a mod mic
and no real lighting he wanted to
upgrade that experience so he went for
new lighting the elgato key light airs
fine a new stream deck great
a new microphone new audio interface new
camera
with a cam link that thought process
seems fine totally fine
but then once he started getting set up
we had lovely clips like this does this
even look that much better than the
webcam and this this is the mod mic
and this is the broadcast mic which they
then modified to change and he switched
to a go xlr and then back to that
interface because that was just a quick
cutting clip
the
so let's start with the camera lighting
wise was fine two elgato key light airs
two sides flat lining mostly fine no
complaints there his background's pretty
boring i would add something to the
closet doors there but you know whatever
great choice getting a camera with a cam
link again
decent choice the problem comes in the
camera that was chosen it was a canon
dslr which i continuously tell people to
stop trying to use canon dslrs for
streaming cameras because they don't
provide clean hdmi out what he ended up
with was a 1080i interlaced really messy
video feed at some points with weird
colors with the autofocus box and all of
the overlays on and in order to turn off
the box in front of his face he had to
turn on manual focus and then for the
samples in the original flow plane video
it was completely out of focus and he's
questioning if it even looked better
than his webcam now they went back and
added in new clips and they ended up
getting it to a better place once it was
focused better and things like that but
it's still a very cropped and not ideal
camera situation because it's a canon
dslr
if you're picking a streaming camera and
you're picking a mod you know a real
camera to use for that
unless it's like a 5d that you are
certain has clean hdmi out or a c200 or
something don't go canon they don't
usually or the m500 that they showed at
ces that has clean hdmi out but
otherwise most canon cameras don't go
with the sony go with the panasonic go
with the fuji
don't go with the nikon because most
nikons other than the big high-end z6
and stuff completely turn off your
camera after 30 minutes but most of them
are fine let's talk audio he upgraded to
a behringer broadcast mic which in and
of itself is probably not that bad i've
never used that specific one i'd love to
try it but
you know totally fine but then he ended
up complementing the mod mic heavily
because the audio quality he got out of
that broadcast mic was nowhere near
great or any better than the mod mic now
the mod mic's a great mic i've ran ads
for them forever because i believe in
them they're pretty cool and they were
probably the right choice for his
scenario given that he apparently
doesn't actually want a microphone
blocking his face
but the problem comes in the interface
he used the behringer um2 which i have
been told was the wrong choice which is
why they added in the go xlr but that is
a very cheap audio interface and i see
this
all the time people get a very expensive
microphone like this sure sm7b and re20
that behringer broadcast mic and then
they spend 20 on an audio interface
arguably the audio interface is more
important than the microphone you get
makes more sense to get a big nice beefy
audio hardware box that can handle any
microphone you throw at it and get a
cheap microphone now because it will
make that cheap microphone sound good
than to get a very expensive microphone
and not be able to power it and that's
exactly what happened here that
interface could not provide anywhere
near enough gain for that microphone and
the audio quality was poop
they added in in the youtube copy
eclipse that where he added in a go xlr
and
it sounded a little bit better but it
didn't sound much better and then he
made a comment about
this small update i did get my issues
with the go xlr sorted out so i'm using
that now it might not have the most
amazing reputation for audio quality
either but i really like a lot of the
features and it's super easy to use so
this is a very common misconception
about the go xlr and i really hope to
dispel it as much as i can because i
hate that people keep perpetuating this
the go xlr has midas preamps not midas
built like preamps kind of like the umc
or um-204 he these are genuine midas
preamps that are very expensive and
incredibly high quality they can power
both the re20 the uh
golden hd2 the
uh row or the high lp r40 and the
suresm7b without a cloud lifter with
clean up to 60 db of gain
it has incredible preamps the best
preamps you can probably get in any sort
of multi-function box for the price
period this is not sponsored by them say
what you will about literally everything
else on it but the raw audio quality you
can get out of the go xlr
is some of the best bang for the buck
especially even in the mini that you can
possibly get just the settings weren't
right he probably from what it sounded
like there were no
like none of the post-processing
processing was applied and the advantage
of using high-end audio hardware
hardware is you get to start to add in
equalization to balance things out
properly compression to make sure that
your audio levels are you know
consistent and that you sound you know
nice and boomy over top of your gameplay
or what have you and all of those things
and this was just kind of plugged in and
was like it don't sound good and these
are a lot of the comments that i get a
lot of the time it's i threw this
together i chose the wrong things the
initial results aren't great and both
audio and video requires a lot of fine
tuning if you want to improve that the
go xlr needed some compression some eq
specific to linus's voice because his
voice is you know has a little bit of a
higher pitch that could be smoothed out
by a good eq curve compressor can help
balance his levels a bit get him a
little bit more presence over top his
gameplay and overall provide a pretty
great
audio experience with this camera the
t6i for all of the issues he ran into it
all he needed to do in the original clip
was just focus it and then moving on to
upgrade from there uh maybe turn down
the lights a bit so that they're not
casting so much on the background or
make sure that the overhead lights he
may have just had the ceiling fan lights
on in the background turn that off and
you get a nice little contrast between
what you have in front of you and what
you have behind you you can get a 20
colored light to cast up on the backdrop
sit in the city on the floor and add a
little splash of color
there's a lot that goes into building a
streaming setup and too frequently i see
people grab these things that they see
recommended from people like me from
other streaming channels and
throw them in a completely mismatched
configuration because they either don't
budget accordingly or
don't want to put in the time to set it
up and you end up with lackluster
results with what should be phenomenal
hardware you should never be buying i
mean granted they didn't buy pretty much
well they may have bought some stuff but
the idea for this setup was not to buy
anything was to use what they had around
but you should never be buying upgrades
to your hardware and then setting it up
and your immediate thought is wow this
doesn't look any better if that's the
case you're probably missing something
there's a lot that can be done i there's
there's a lot of videos on the internet
i was about to recommend my own i don't
actually have any videos about
optimizing your in-camera settings uh
learning shutter speed iso aperture for
your lens things like that there's a lot
that goes into that rule of thumb at
least shutter speed it should be double
your frame rate so at 60 fps it should
be 120 or 125 at 30fps it should be one
over 60 and then you optimize your iso
based on how bright your scene is from
there the lighting balance of having two
key lights here and here works out
pretty solid you may want a kicker light
depending on how dark your background is
audio positioning in his video was good
the microphone arm positioning seemed
like it would get annoying you can get
microphone arms that reach up over your
monitor like i have but otherwise my
positioning and technique was all good
it's just a matter of getting the right
hardware to back up the hardware that
you have all this being said the actual
way in show production has actually been
fairly solid from what i've seen and i
don't have any major complaints there
and linus brought up a specific
complaint that he has that a lot of
people do about this style of production
and that he didn't want a big microphone
in his face for the video now i just
recently released a video this week
about tips for non-game streamers where
and i say if you're doing teaching or
something like that it may not be
considered appropriate to have a
microphone in the frame at which point
you could use a lavalier microphone for
your stream you'll just have to manage
the wires or battery life for wireless
kits deity has a interview
wireless microphone kit that i highly
recommend you can go with something like
that or you can get little shotgun
microphones or pencil condenser
microphones that you mount in different
places and in that video i even have a
sample of a
cheaper just super basic shotgun mic
mounted on my monitor
just off frame and how great that
sounded without needing something like
this in my face so go check out that
video
but
just wanted to provide a little bit of a
critique of you know what he's got going
on the due to the cropping and
everything i felt like the camera angle
was like super crunched in on his face i
prefer a little bit of a wider view but
i guess if you don't have that much like
in your room if it's just an empty wall
you don't really need that wide of a
view so it depends on you know what your
production needs are hope this was
helpful to you hope you enjoyed the
video go check out linus's streaming
setup linked in the video description
below hit the like button if you enjoyed
subscribe for more stream guides and
stream critique sign up form if you want
your stream critiqued in the series
that's what i normally do in the show